Well, well, everyone, what's up, how
are you? My name is what it tells me. I'm a
Spanish chess grandmaster and today I'm
going to teach you how to play chess. You already
know that the series have a reputation for being
difficult or complicated, but
you're not going to see that at all.  The rules are very
simple and we will all know how to
play chess well, considered by
many as a sport, as a science,
as an art and it is played between two
people. It is played between a white side
and between a black side and the objective
which you can give it.  checkmate our
rival, just like in soccer we have to
know the playing field,
for example, soccer knows where
the goals are, there is where the central circle is,
s3 center the corners, well, the same
in chess, chess is played on an
8 x 8 board  As you can see here with 64
squares 8 x 8 64
we know the multiplication table well and then
notice that there are what are called
columns in chess, right, then
there are the rows
and this is going to be enumerated just like the
boats, we don't know the move.  from that game
where you put some little boats in a
coordinate system and then you had to
sink it because here the
notation system is exactly the same, it is numbered
from a to h
okay and from 1 to 8 in this way
this box here in the corner
left because it would be 1 truth and for
example this one here because it would be the one that I'm
sure I already had divine at home
it would be c3 truth
abc 1 2 and 3 well also on a
chess board there are what are called
diagonals truth we have talked about  the
rows of the columns and then there are the
diagonals, for example this diagonal
would be at 1 h 8. Another very
important thing that you have to know when you are going to
start playing chess is
that there always has to be a small
white square on the right.  this way
this would be completely wrong so you
can't play chess right because there is
a black square on the right and
so on correct incorrect correct beige
white square on the right well
once we have known the
playing field we will begin to see how it is
they move the pieces okay and then we have to know
what the initial configuration is like on a
chess board the first piece that
we are going to know is the tower okay there are
four towers in chess
what is the initial position they are placed in
the corners that is, in the squares at
1 h 1 h 8 and at 8 how the
towers move the towers move as many
squares as you want horizontally and
vertically, that is to say, notice that the tower
is very good because it can move through
many squares up to
infinity, it cannot go until  portugal
because because there are limits on the
board, really, pay attention, so at
most the rook can go up to h 8, it must be
said that of course if there are
pieces on the path you cannot jump over them,
the rook is not a piece that can
assault its companions.  The only piece
that can jump to its partner is the
knight, so if you have a piece from
your same side, at most you can reach
one square before and if you have a
piece from the opposite side on the way you
can eat it but in no case
can you jump it.  okay,
you can get up to here or you can
eat it and in that case the rook
will be on the square where that
enemy piece was okay then remember
horizontal vertical as many squares as
you want so this would be the rook
let's go with the bishop the bishops there are two
bishops per side too  the imps
look at each other one another is in the
initial position of the bishops the
bishops how it moves well they
move diagonally there is a bishop with
white squares that only moves along
the white diagonals true that is,
the film can move along  this
diagonal or for this truth
equally the black square bishop
how many squares the bishop can move
as many as you want it is worth for example if
the bishop is on f1 or if there is a bishop if
there is a bishop on the f3 square well then
this the film is  You can move either on
this diagonal or on this other one, it is valid
both forwards and backwards,
equally
here the same rule applies that
with the towers decision against there is
a piece on your side in the way you
can never jump over it, we said that
The knight, the colt, is the only piece
that is capable of jumping over its companions,
at most it could reach one
square before your side's piece,
and the same as we have said before,
if you find a piece in the path
of the enemy side, the  you can samper
right boom it would be a bishop for b 7 you can
get to a square before or you can
decide to eat hello these would be the
bishops let's go with one of the most
complicated pieces that exist in accessing the
knights which are my favorites because
because the knights are very good
pieces  to trick your
opponent, but we will see this much
later because this is quite
complicated. Note that there are also two
knights per side in chess and they are
placed in these squares right next
to the towers, okay, right next to the
corners in the square.  c1 b1 g8 and 8
how do horses move
some of you may be asking because they move in it
there is a good very simple rule to
explain how horses move
look which horse has three syllables
no here goes I so you can do it like this
here goes I don't know  move in l that
is to say you can move one
horizontally and two vertically
later or the other way around
you can move two vertically and one
horizontally notice that it is always one l
here goes I I
I will follow me okay then in l one l
towards here another direction  and another l went
there, but what about the horses? Well,
they noticed that it is a very
jumping piece. If you have an enemy piece or
your side's piece in the middle, then if
you can jump it, that is to say, this horse
can do here here and here and
you can jump it is worth it if
there is an enemy piece because you can
jump to that pawn
here I go and it is able to jump it is worth it
as it is captured because in the same way
as with the other pieces that is to say if there is
an enemy piece in a piece where  that
knight can land because you
can protect it without a problem 1, 2 and 3 and
as the queen it is worth remembering the
knight, the only piece that is capable of
jumping its rivals, what
else we have, we have seen the
bishop, we have seen the knight and we have
Having seen the rook, we go with the two
most important pieces of chess, the queen and the
king. It's worth
paying attention, there is one queen per side,
only one king per side that you have to
take care of as if they were
your children because because they are super
important, okay, let's try.  To
explain how the queen moves first,
okay, let's forget about the kings. First,
let's see how the queen moves. The
queen is the best piece on the board by
far. It is the master of the board because it
can move in any
direction and the squares it  you want, that
is, it can move both vertically,
horizontally and diagonally,
all the squares you want, that is,
it is a combination of the rook and the
bishop. Remember that the rook moved
horizontally and vertically and the bishop
moved diagonally, well.  The queen in the
combination in the fusion would not agree with
those Dragonball functions where
Goku and Vegeta merged because here it
would be a fusion of the rook and the bishop
because it can move in
any direction and the squares which
means that it is
a super piece  Importantly, the one that is
worth the most is worth 9 points so we repeat
because you can move diagonally as many
squares as you want, vertically and
horizontally. Ok, let's give an example
so that you can learn how to move the queen.
Imagine that a white queen
is on square 4 and  that there is a
black rook on b 7 and a pawn on b 4 what pieces
can we capture or imagine that
there is also a bishop jan ephe 7 and it is
white's turn because white could capture the
rook must 7 true because it is capable of
moving diagonally  could
also capture the pawn should 4 that would not be
too good an idea because because
then black could capture t the
queen later simply that
remember queen can move for all
the horizontal vertical and diagonal
let's go with the king the king is the most
important piece  of the seder is because because
if not so checkmate not so checkmate
the king and we lose the game so we have
to take care of it very very well
because there is a king on each side and the king is
the same as the queen but with many
restrictions the king  can move in
any direction but only one
square we told him that the queen can
move vertically and
horizontally as many squares as we want
well the king can only move one square
diagonally but only one
square diagonally only one square one
square and one square vertically  It
can move but only one square
back and the same
horizontally to the left and right,
so as you can see it can move to all
the surrounding squares but not
further and as I say, it is the piece that we have to
take care of and that we have  to put it
safely in the middle game with
something that we are going to call castling, which is
a defensive move to put our
king in a safe place, as I say, if
our king catches it, if our king is
checkmated, we run out, we run out.
the business will be over ok we will have lost
the chess game
well then we are missing well anyone
who has ever seen a
chess game and this guy who is saying
this ugly thing that I have in front of the camera
is not talking to me about the
exact pawns we have  The pawns are the
smallest but very important
because the pawns protect
our largest pieces when starting a
chess game. You will see that
we have eight pawns for each side in
chess that are placed in the second
row. Ok, we are going to place it here. Look.
how nice or chopin cillo here
three four five six seven and eight and in
the first row as you know the
biggest pieces will go of course the king goes on
e1 if the king is white it goes on the
black square the white queen goes on one  We are going to
place all the pieces so that
you can learn, okay, and the same goes for black,
look at the queen, the rook, the bishop and another
bishop and another rook. So, as I said, there
are eight pawns. The pawn moves only
one step vertically forward,
always with one exception and  This
exception is when the pawn is
in its starting position, it can
decide without moving a step or two, okay,
that is, if the pawn is 2 in its
starting position, you can decide to
play in four or three, okay, yes, it
can always only be played.  move a pawn
in turns that many of
you will have always told hey pp that my
grandfather told me that I could move two
pawns at the same time to start a game
of saleh that is not possible it is a
tall tale' okay that is directly illegal so
only one pawn per turn
one piece per turn ok no one
does this to me about the two pawns because that doesn't
exist so I see one step except with the
exception that the pawn is in
its initial position which can move in
two steps here you can  decide to play
efe 4
but once black responds to you,
for example with the move of 6th you
can no longer move the pawn two steps again
when they have already moved the pawn you
can only move it one step okay
then imagine that he decides to play three out
of six  Now you can only move the pawn one
step if of course any other pawn
as it has not been moved yet you can
move the two steps but
we have not said the pawns as capture because for
example imagine that we reach this
position the pawns are blocked
because because they do not capture  vertically
ok you can't do this move the
pawns eat from the side and that is to say when
a rival pawn is placed on a square
in front of ours and from the side
then we can eat that pawn
ok this would be a pawn of five and this
would be sport of  5
so for example if now black
plays 6 then we could eat that
pawn
ok but remember that you can't
eat this pawn so it has to be
one row ahead ok to say if for
example now white's black
juan cavallo efe 6 you don't  you can eat
this pawn this pawn would have to be
either on 6 or on c 6 to be able to be
captured okay then just
remember that the pawns move
forward but they capture from the vale ready
so these are the rules of chess
it may sound a  not very difficult but as
you can see just move palante
backwards diagonally nl there is no better
horizontal vertical remember pawn one
step by step diagonal bishop rook
horizontal vertical queen for all sides
king for all sides but only one
square knight nl so that's it then
nothing  I hope you liked the
explanation and now we are going to look at some
slightly more difficult concepts that
we still have left to know how to play
chess perfectly. Don't leave
until later.